LOGISTICS SERVICES CONTRACT TEMPLATE Download Logistics Services Contract sample in Word format. Fill in the blanks and choose the terms of this international agreement that best suit your needs. This Contract regulates relations between the companies that provide these services and their clients, manufacturers and distributors of products. This Logistics Services Contract template includes the usual clauses for this type of contract, such as: obligations and responsibilities of the Logistics Service Provider, ownership and characteristics of the products, Client obligations, rates, claims, insurance, no exclusiveness, confidentiality, subcontracting, etc. LOGISTICS SERVICES CONTRACT DATE: .............................................................................................................................................. BETWEEN: ................................. [company legal name] whose registered office is at ..................................... [address, city and country] and registration/fiscal number is .............................., represented by .......................... [surname and first name, position] (hereinafter referred to as the "Service Provider”), AND: ................................. [company legal name] whose registered office is at ..................................... [address, city and country] and registration/fiscal number is .............................. represented by .......................... [surname and first name, position] (hereinafter referred to as the "Client”). DECLARE THAT: I. The Service Provider’s main activity is to provide directly or indirectly all kinds of logistic services related to transportation, distribution and/or storage of the goods, products, and merchandise in ................. [mention country or countries], and that the Service Provider has the sufficient and necessary knowledge, experience, personnel and equipment as to comply with the obligations contained herein. II. The Client is a company whose core activity is the manufacture, preparation, and /or commercialization of .......................... [insert products] and that it has suffice and necessary elements as to comply with the obligations agreed herein. III. Both Parties undertake to observe the following clauses: 1 1. LOGISTIC SERVICES 1.1 Subject to the terms of the present Agreement, the Service Provider is obliged to provide the Client, the Services described in Annex 1 of this Agreement, in connection to the Products as described in Annex 2 of this Agreement. 1.2 The Client agrees to pay for such Services the rates described on Annex 3 of the present Agreement. 2. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PRODUCTS 2.1 The Products that shall be subject to the Services will be those described in Annex 2 of the present Agreement. The Service Provider acknowledges that the Products require normal and moderate care appropriate to their nature. 2.2 The Client shall notify in writing to the Service Provider, specifications and special precautions required by the Products. The Service Provider will not be responsible for any loss, injury or damage of the Products if the Client fails to notify the Service Provider the care and special precautions which must be taken with the Products. 2.3 In the event that the Client wanted the Service Provider to provide the Services with respect to goods and merchandises different to the Products due to their different characteristics, care specifications, special management and maintaining specifications, Client must notify in writing to the Service Provider the characteristics and special care for such goods or merchandises so the Service Provider can analyze the possibility of performing such Services in connection to such products. The Service Provider is not obliged to perform the Services in connection to such products. The Service Provider may increase the amount to be paid by the Client in the event of providing such services. 2.4 The Client will be held responsible for any damages and lost profits suffered by the Service Provider derived from negligence, deceit or bad faith of the Client due to the inaccurate, incomplete, inexact or false information provided to the Service Provider in connection to the Products. 3. PROPERTY OF THE PRODUCTS 3.1 The Client and his suppliers will have the full property of the Products, such property will not be assigned in any circumstance or any way whatsoever to the Service Provider. ............................................................................................................................................ This is a sample of 2 pages out of 13 of the Logistics Services Contract. To get more information about this contract click here: LOGISTICS SERVICES CONTRACT 2 USER GUIDE Contracts drafted by the legal experts of Global Negotiator cover all relevant aspects that are negotiated and agreed in the different types of business between companies. However, when these contracts are used you should take into account some recommendations common to all of them that are described in this User Guide. DATE The date when the contract comes into force is the one that appears in its header, as mentioned in the final paragraphs of the contract, before signatures (This Contract comes into force on the date written above). In some contracts -for example in the Supply Contract- the date of coming into force is also mentioned in one of the clauses. In these cases you have to verify that the two dates inserted in the contract (in the heading and in the corresponding clause) are the same, in order to avoid discrepancies. PARTIES Be sure to insert in the first page of the contract the full details of the Parties:  When a Party is a company you must insert the following information: legal name, legal form (limited, incorporated, etc.), full address, registration data and fiscal identification number.  When a Party is an individual that works as independent professional (for example a commercial agent) you must insert the following information: full name, profession, full address and fiscal identification number. CLAUSES Clauses with different alternatives: choose the most favorable In the most important clauses of each contract (exclusivity, payment terms, applicable law and competent jurisdiction, etc.) several drafting alternatives are proposed so you can choose the most appropriate to each situation. Therefore, the user before submitting the contract to the other Party must choose the alternatives that seem best suited to their interests, and eliminate the rest. Clauses with blank spaces to be completed In several clauses of the contract blank spaces appear with dots (.......................) that the user has to complete inserting text. Following the dots, between brackets, you will see the data and explanations to insert the text. 3  When the text between brackets is in normal letters (the same as the contract) and separated by "," or the word "o", the user must insert one of the options suggested. Example of blank space (........) with options to select between brackets: Orders handled before completion of the present Contract which produce sales transactions within .......... [1, 2, 3, 6] months shall entitle the Agent to receive the corresponding commission. In this case the user must choose between options 1, 2, 3 or 6 months and insert one in the blank space (........).  When the text between brackets is in italics the user has to insert the data and information requested and eliminate the bracketed text. Example of blank space - (.........) to insert text: Both parties, by mutual consent, resolve to refer any dispute to the Rules of Conciliation and Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce by one or more arbitrators appointed in accordance with said Rules. The place of arbitration shall be ........... [city and country]. In this case the user must insert in the blank space (...........) the city and country chosen to conduct the arbitration and afterwards eliminate the bracketed text [city and country]. Notices Clause Sometimes it may happen that the official address of the Parties which appear at the beginning of the contract is different from which is to be used for communications between the Parties during the terms of the contract. In this case the user should include at the end of the contract a Notices Clause. Example of Notices Clause: Notices. - In order to comply with their contractual obligations, the Parties establish the following address for the provision of notices related to this contract: - Party 1 ............................................................. [insert full address]. - Party 2 ............................................................. [insert full address]. ANNEXES The contracts incorporate some Annexes, each of them, referenced to the corresponding Clause. Annexes are drafted in commonly used formats, although the user must adapt these formats and the text inserted in them to each particular situation. SIGNATURES People who sign Persons signing the contract on behalf of the company must have the authority to do so and preferably, be entitled on the basis of a power of attorney. Below the signature, in addition to the full name of the person that signs his/her position must be inserted. When one of the Parties who signs is a natural person (for example a commercial agent in an Agency Contract) obviously he or she is the person that has to sign the contract. 4 The laws of some countries require that contracts, to be valid, shall be signed in front of witnesses or a public notary. Therefore, before signing a contract you should be informed about the requirements that may exist in each country. Place and date of signature Usually contracts are signed by both Parties on the same date and place. Nevertheless, in international contracts, due to physical distance, it is common that each of the Parties sign in different dates and places. This contract provides for both alternatives so it comes to choosing the most appropriate to each situation. Number of copies Usually, the Parties sign two copies of the contract, each Party retaining one of them, but can also arise the need to sign more copies. In this case all you have to do is mention explicitly the number of copies to be signed in the paragraph that is included at the end of the contract (Both Parties declare their conformity to the present contract, which is signed in ...... copies, each of which shall be considered an original). GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS The Parties must sign all pages of the contract, including Annexes, so they are also valid. It is better to use ball point or pen (not pencil) in a color other than black (e.g.: blue); this makes it easier to distinguish an original document from a photocopy. It is preferable (although no mandatory) to express sums of money and percentages in words and figures. Of course, the words and figures for a given amount must match exactly. You also must insert the currency in which the amounts are expressed. It is advisable to use the rules establish by ISO that name each currency by three capital letters (EUR for euro, USD for dollar, GBP for sterling pound, JPY for Japanese yen, etc. - you can get the acronyms of every currency in the website www.oanda.com). Once you have chosen the best alternatives of each clause and have completed the blank spaces you should revise the whole contract to remove remaining paragraphs and correct any errors. 5 6